Hello,
everyone.
And once again,
welcome to basic shell scripting section.
Okay,
so this is the section we're actually gonna get into Creating shells.
Gross.
The basic cell scripts.
How we could create jobs,
how we could run simple,
um,
echoes scripts.
Or how we could use input and output off our state mints to war with the shell scripts.
So what are we going to cover in this section?
So let's take a quick look.
First,
we will start by creating our first script.
Yes.
So this is the fun part.
Guys okays first Shell script.
You probably have written many shell script as well.
Ah,
and the basic one.
It might be like,
Ah,
you know,
like ABC for you.
But that's OK.
We'll start with always start with ABC.
So we'll learn how we could create a first group.
How we could execute and permission stuff like that.
Then we will create a second script where we will run basic tasks like based on our regular
commands.
We will run our basic tasks followed by the basic administration Task Adminstration task
Are those like if you are checking the disc base,
our memory and how can we put that in a script that will do all that automated for us is in
that fund that you don't have to log in any anymore.
And then run those tedious commands everyday to check your system and see how it is doing.
We will cover that in the lesson.
Okay,
then.
Well covered the defining variables.
You guys know already about the variables,
right?
How can we define variables in the script and actually use it?
Input and output.
When you run a script,
it will ask you a question.
And based on your answer,
how is going to respond those type of question?
Now,
how does it work in the rial life?
Well,
if you notice when you run a script in Windows or even in Lennox and you installing a
package or something,
it will ask you question,
right.
Do you want to go ahead and continue?
You click quiet and says Yes.
Based on your input,
it does certain functions.
So that is about but output.
Then we'll have condition statements.
This is where it gets a little complicated.
But don't worry,
I am with you.
That's what I'm starting with.
Basic.
Um,
it's just like as if you are,
Let's say going toe a war and you were in the military.
The first thing they do is they actually train you.
So this is the whole thing is about training.
I wanted to start from scratch,
so you know everything inside out.
Then we'll have some additional conditions.
Statement.
But for the case statement and then four loops statement.
Why do we need four loops Statements?
What are the advantages offered?
Do?
Well,
scripts will also cover the Doo Wah scripts,
and the last one is getting online Help.
What does it mean?
Getting online help.
Now,
let me tell you this.
I'm not like a I don't know every scripting,
um commands.
I don't know every scripting,
um,
variables inside a script.
So sometimes I also go online and find help.
So I want you to also utilize that same technique to go online and look for Pacific scripts
that can help you achieve your goals.
So how can we get those on my house?
All explain it to you,
so sit tight.
Let's start or start,
but are creating first grip